#summary Thoughts on ways to provide great audio for DAISY books.
#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

DAISY players use audio to read the books. They may play pre-recorded audio and/or use speech synthesis to 'read' text aloud.

We need to consider the characteristics and capabilities of the Android platform, including timing and synchronisation between text (and other content) being displayed on screen and the audio output.

This wiki page contains various ideas and analysis which may help us to implement robust designs and solutions for audio in all its forms for a DAISY reader on Android.

These ideas are works-in-progress. Some will make their way into code.

= Thoughts =

== SoundPool ==
Android provides the powerful {{{MediaPlayer}}} and a lighter-weight {{{SoundPool}}}. Potentially we can use the SoundPool in place of the MediaPlayer we're currently using.

Defining characteristics:
   * {{{SoundPool}}} allows the start and duration of audio to be specified. The {{{MediaPlayer}}} only allows the offset to be specified and continues playing until the end of the file. DAISY books often contain several audio segments in a single audio file (in mp3 format). Currently we rely on the characteristics of how audio is stored contiguously and in order which means that users are unaware the audio simply plays to the end of the file (in the {{{MediaPlayer}}}). The SoundPool may allow us finer-grained control of the audio playback.
   * The SoundPool takes some time to load and process audio segments. We may need to write slightly more complex code to load, schedule, play, and unload audio segments from the {{{SoundPool}}} particularly where the audio files are large (> 1MB).

=== Links ===
References:
   * http://developer.android.com/reference/android/media/SoundPool.html

Sample projects:
   * http://stackoverflow.com/questions/5202510/soundpool-sample-not-ready
   * http://www.vogella.com/articles/AndroidMedia/article.html
   * http://blog.nelsondev.net/?p=207


